\chapter{Summary }
\label{c:summary}

This thesis has presented an overview of the theoretical background to the Standard Model, a summary of the
CMS detector at the LHC, and a measurement of differential \ttbar cross sections with respect to global
variables \met, \HT, \st, \mt and \wpt in proton-proton collisions with 5.0\fbinv of data at \roots=7~\TeV and
with 19.7\fbinv of data at \roots=~8~\TeV collected with the CMS experiment at the LHC. 

The main objective of these measurements is to verify the generators used to produce simulations of the signal
and background events in CMS. This understanding provides a good basis in new physics analyses where such
events constitute a significant background. In addition, the distributions under investigation would be
sensitive to rare standard model processes ; for example, deviations from theory in the \met or \mt
distributions would show signs of \ttbar+\Z/\W, while the \HT, \st and \wpt distributions would provide
information on \ttbar+X production where X is massive and decays to hadrons or stop pair production. The
results in this analysis showed the previously observed characteristic of a softer \pt distribution in data
than in the simulation. The simulated distribution corrected for this mismodelling show good agreement with
data, however. Otherwise, the data shows good general agreement with the theoretical predictions, showing that
these commonly used Monte Carlo simulation generators can be used with confidence to model \ttbar events.

Run 2 of the LHC after Long Shutdown 1 began in June 2015 with proton-proton collisions occurring at
$\roots=13~\TeV$. Further measurements of \ttbar events are on-going at the LHC on Run 2 data and will no
doubt continue to do so. Currently an Early Analysis (analyses aimed to obtain and demonstrate that the
detector and simulations are well understood at this early stage of Run 2) is being carried out by the same
group that worked on the analysis presented in this thesis on 40\pbinv of LHC Run 2 data from CMS. As
collision energies and luminosities at the LHC increase, higher statistics, higher cross-sections in the
following years could lead to the observation of rare physics processes and/or the production of potential
heavier particles than are currently known.

Run 2 is scheduled to continue until Long Shutdown 2 in 2018 when major accelerator and experiment upgrades
will take place. Until then, regular technical stops, such as over vacation periods, will allow for routine
maintenance to be carried out. Included in Appendix~\ref{c:service_work} is a summary of the service carried
out by the author for the CMS experiment, relating to the strip tracker operations and maintenance, and
investigation of the new binary CBC readout chip for the strip tracker. Currently the newer CBC2 is undergoing
testing, with a CBC3 already in the design stages and final testing to begin in 2018 for a scheduled
installation in CMS at the HL-LHC from 2023 onwards.

